Notes

Females have higher EEG Power

: Training with beta neurofeedback is associated with increased attention
308 and arousal, which is thought to explain both lower reaction times and improved sensitivity in
309 a sustained attention task (Egner and Gruzelier, 2004).

http://www.eneuro.org/content/eneuro/early/2016/11/30/ENEURO.0275-16.2016.full.pdf
Calibration:	Normally, when a user puts on the headset, they're told to spend three 20 second intervals thinking as hard as they can about examples of a class, e.g "Animals" we may want to keep track of this baseline.
Alpha 	"Alpha waves predominantly in posterior region of brain
Mu waves associated with front"
Mu waves	Associated with hand motion?
Power in the rear generally stronger than front
Femals have higher EEG power in most bands
, increased beta power 305 in older adults may be consistent with work demonstrating an association between poor attention 306 and beta modulation
: Training with beta neurofeedback is associated with increased attention 308 and arousal, which is thought to explain both lower reaction times and improved sensitivity in 309 a sustained attention task (Egner and Gruzelier, 2004).
Sustained visual attention has also been 310 linked to beta activity (Wr´obel, 2000), underscoring the importance of understanding how beta 311 activity changes with age, and whether these changes are associated with age-related changes in 312 attention.
Alpha power is known 317 to be modulated by task demands (Payne et al., 2013), fatigue (Crabbe and Dishman, 2004), and 318 mindfulness meditation (Kerr et al., 2011), all of which are likely at play during use of the Muse
. It is also worth saying that correlations 331 between alpha peak frequency and cognitive measures should consider the role of beta, given our 332 earlier discussion of beta power being associated with attentional control.
Alpha Assymetry associated with Affect

Neurofeedback and game experience
Neurofeedback was implemented with custom-built software and was based on relative spectral
power (RSP) in alpha (8–12 Hz) and beta (18–30 Hz) bands. The tutorial part of the game was
used for personal calibration, i.e., to determine the upper and lower thresholds for both bands
of interest for each individual. Based on the individual thresholds, four types of neurofeedback
messages were sent to the game: whenever relative alpha power was higher (lower) than the

Simple Delta Strategy
1. EEG data observation. The screen was split into five color-coded vertical strips, each displaying
ongoing EEG data of the participants. This served two purposes: to enable assistants
to adjust the headsets if necessary and for participants to identify their own brain waves
(Fig 2A). During this phase, participants were encouraged to blink and move their face muscles
and observe the effects on the ongoing signal. The intention was to convince the participants
that the displays were truly driven by their brain signals in real time.


Individual thresholds were calculated from the mean alpha and beta relative power during
the tutorial: lower and upper alpha (beta) thresholds were set as 0.9 (1.0) and 1.1 (1.2) of the
mean alpha (beta) power. The remainder of the game was driven using the customized
thresholds.

Epoching. We defined 9 conditions in accordance with the game timeline. The condition
names and durations were: Tutorial-relax (20 s), Tutorial-concentrates (20 s), Solo1-relax (20
s), Solo1-concentrate (30 s), Solo2-relax (20 s), Solo2-concentrate (30 s), Group-guided-relax
(20 s), Group-guided-concentrate (30 s), and Group-freestyle (90 s). The freestyle condition
was not analyzed since it was distinctly longer and different than all other conditions. Also,
because some conditions were 30 s long, we always utilized only the first 20 s of each condition
segment. Condition specific segments were resampled to 256 Hz. For subsequent data analysis
we split the long segments into a series of overlapping 1s epochs, with 100 ms overlaps. For 20
s of continuous data resampled to 256 Hz this procedure resulted in 211 epochs. Temporal
mean was subtracted from each epoch.

e. Concentration training elicited a particularly
salient effect of relative spectral power increase in beta range and decrease in frequencies < 8
Hz. Th

Cortical Theta
